---
path: "/product-visibility"
date: 2017-07-12T17:12:33.962Z
title: "Product Visibility"
---

Product visibility is without a doubt one of the most complex things you'll encounter in OrderCloud but by the end of this guide you will be familiar with all the different ways product visibility works and will be educated enough to choose a method that works best for your use case. Feel free to skip ahead to the [visibility cheat sheet](#product-visibility-cheat-sheet) if prefer a condensed version.

## Traditional Product Visibility
Let's outline the basic steps you'll need to make a product visible to a user in the traditional way. This allows you to define visibility at the most granular level and is best suited for the most complex applications.

1. Create a catalog structure (just like in previous section)
2. Assign catalog to buyer company
3. Assign user to usergroup
4. Create [price schedule](TODO:link-to-api-reference)
5. Create [three point assignment](TODO:link-to-method) between the product, price schedule, and usergroup

Step four is really where all the magic happens. It introduces a unique three point assignment between the product, priceschedule, and usergroup. This defines what the price on the product will be for the users in that usergroup. 

[TODO:link-to-image]


It might be intuitive to see price as a property of a product but by decoupling any price related things (price schedule) from the product we can represent the same product at different prices to different users. Let's say we want that same product to be have a different price for a different user. No problem!

[TODO:image-with-sameproduct-two-prices]


Hopefully you can begin seeing the power and flexibility we gain by using assignments. By the way, unique pricing is really just skimming the surface of what we can do with priceschedules. A price schedule can do things like set min or max quantity, restrict quantity to set intervals, and even track inventory!

## Simpler Product Visibility
That’s a fair amount of work, and although it gives you extremely precise control over who sees what, it’s often more control than you really need, which can make catalog management overly burdensome.

In 2017 we rolled out a powerful new set of features aimed at simplifying catalog management for cases where you don’t need such fine-grained control. Let’s explore these features by use case. 

### Scenario 1: "I want control over who sees what, but pricing usually doesn’t vary from buyer to buyer."
For this scenario you should use **default price schedules**. Just populate `DefaultPriceScheduleID` on the product model, leave it out of the `ProductAssignments`, and those assigned parties will get the default pricing. `ProductAssignment` still has a `PriceScheduleID`, and it takes precedence over the default, but it is now optional. Giving each product a default price schedule is recommended in the majority of cases.

### Scenario 2: "I want to allow some users to *see* certain products but not *buy* them."
This is a case where you would **NOT** use a default price schedule. If other visibility requirements are met but neither `Product.DefaultPriceSchedule` nor any `ProductAssignment.PriceScheduleID` related to the user is populated, the product will be visible to the user but not purchase-able.

### Scenario 3: "When I assign a catalog to a buyer organization, I just want everybody in that organization to see everything in the catalog."
If your visibility rules are fairly simple, you’ll appreciate this one. `CatalogAssignment` (the relationship between Catalog and Buyer organization) has these two properties: `ViewAllCategories` and `ViewAllProducts`. And yup, setting them to `true` does exactly what you think it does. These settings tend to go hand in hand with default price schedules; without those, you'd need to create product assignments anyway just to get pricing in place.

### Scenario 4: "I want to control visibility at the category level, but when I assign a category, I want all products and subcategories within it to be visible to the assigned party automatically."

Here we get a little more fine-grained with assignments, but still not all the way down to individual products. You’ll want `CatalogAssignment.ViewAllCategories` and `CatalogAssignment.ViewAllProducts` set to `false`, and set `CategoryAssignment.Visible` and `CategoryAssignment.ViewAllProducts` to `true` as needed. Note that while `CatalogAssignment` can only be applied to an entire buyer organization, `CategoryAssignment` can apply to the entire organization or a user group within it.

### Scenario 5: "I want everybody to see everything except a specific category."
`CategoryAssignment.Visible` and `CategoryAssignment.ViewAllProducts` have 3 possible values: `true`, `false`, or `null`. `null` means “inherit this setting from my parent”, i.e. the parent category or, in the case of top-level categories, the catalog. This is a very powerful concept - it means you turn on `ViewAllCategories` and `Vi.ewAllProducts` on the `CatalogAssignment`, and then turn off either or both anywhere down the category tree. Category-level settings, whether true or false, will always override their corresponding catalog-level settings.

### Scenario 6: "I want to temporarily hide an entire catalog from all buyers it’s assigned to."

Product and Category have always had an Active bit, independent of assignments, that allows you to effectively hide it from everyone by setting it to `false`. We are now adding an Active bit at the Catalog level as well.

### Scenario 7: "I want a search-driven catalog where products do not belong to categories."
We’ve already discussed that a product’s assignment to a buyer party (`ProductAssignment`) is no longer required for visibility. The same holds true for a product’s assignment to a category. As long as `CatalogAssignment.ViewAllProducts` is `true`, the only requirement for a product to become visible via search or direct link is the existence of a `CatalogProductAssignment`. (Note: This assignment is technically required in all product visibility scenarios. If you do not create one before assigning the product to a category, it will be created implicitly. But if it doesn’t exist before creating a `ProductAssignment`, an error will occur. No more "floating" product-party relationships - the Catalog is King!)


We're confident that most OrderClould developers will find at least a subset of these new features useful. Getting to know them now and taking advantage of them whenever possible will relieve you of many catalog maintenance headaches down the road.


## Product Visibility Cheat Sheet
**Visibility Rules**

All of the following must be true for a Buyer User to see a Product (via me routes):

- Product.Active = true
- Catalog exists where:
    - Catalog.Active = true
    - Buyer is assigned via CatalogAssignment
    - Product is assigned via ProductCatalogAssignment
- One of the following is true:
    - CatalogAssignment.ViewAllProducts = true, OR
    - Category exists in Catalog where
        - Active = true
        - Product assigned via CategoryProductAssignment
        - CategoryAssignment exists where
            - Buyer, User, or Group matches the user
            - ViewAllProducts = true for first non-null setting up the tree
    - ProductAssignment exists for Buyer or any Group the user belongs to (PriceScheduleID not required)

**Validation Rules**

In order to create a ProductAssignment, the Buyer and Product must be assigned to a common Catalog (via CatalogAssignment and CatalogProductAssignment).

